# Trabajo Fin de Grado - Ingeniería del Software UCM
### TFG de Carlos Cano, Carlos Sánchez, Daniel Bedinger y David Prats

## Sistema de asistencia para cuidados de enfermos del Alzheimer. Alzheimer’s care assistance system

The origin of the project stems from the CANTOR project which in Spanish is the acronym for Automatic composition of personal narratives as support for occupational therapy based on reminiscence, funded by the Ministry of Science and Innovation, which is a project in which academics from the Complutense University of Madrid and the University of La Coruña collaborate with the objective of the development of a digital tool that significantly improves the performance of these therapies.
Human life expectancy is constantly increasing thanks to the great health advances of recent times. At the beginning of the 20th century, it was around 50-60 years old and currently the world average is between 70 and 73 years old, although depending on the country we live in it is higher or lower. This huge increase is believed to be one of the reasons why the number of cases of Alzheimer’s disease has increased so much, as it mostly appears on an older stage of life.
According to the Spanish Society of Neurology, in 2019 there were around 800,000 Alzheimer's cases in Spain and that between 30% and 40% of Alzheimer's cases are still undiagnosed. It is the disease that generates the greatest disability in older people and therefore, improving the quality of life of these patients and families is a very important priority.
Alzheimer's patients show mainly cognitive, language and communication disorders. Reminiscence-based therapies, through social interaction and the use of information such as memories, photos, music, and personal relationships, help to improve their quality of life and preserve all this data.
Given the lack of systems that can handle all this information, our objective is to create an application that facilitates the work of therapists and manages all this data thanks to current technology.
